# .NET upgrade strategy

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: @Energinet-DataHub/mightyducks @MartinFHansen
* Date: 2021-03-26

## Context and Problem Statement

.NET runtime and SDK is under constant development. According to [.NET release cadence](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) a new major version is released annually in November. With this release cadence it's easy to get behind and accumulate technical debt if a major version is missed.

Every odd version number is a `current` version and every even version number is `long-term-support (LTS)`. Every `current` version is supported for 15 months, and every LTS is supported for 3 years.

Beside accumulating technical debt, it can also result in a missed opportunity if new features is not utilized. This could be new technical advantages, performance gains etc.

## Decision Outcome

There is a need to follow the release pace for .NET version. When taking a dependency on a new version it introduces a risk of instability, if we are first movers. With this in mind we will not use a new major version the first three months after the release. In this period we expect any inconsistencies to be identified and fixed, or workarounds documented.

Therefor we can start using a new major version in February according to the .NET release cycle.

It is always important to keep in mind, that the chosen runtime is compatible with the technical requirements for the solution.

## Additional links

* [.NET on Azure Functions Roadmap](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure/net-on-azure-functions-roadmap/ba-p/2197916)
* [.NET Core and .NET 5 Support Policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core)
